In this lecture we're going to go ahead and create this sign right here.
So let's go ahead and get started.
So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm going to create a new document my document is 1920 by 10 80 pixels.
The reason why it's so large is just like with the potion we may want it to fill up the entire screen.
But if we don't that's OK we can always shrink it down.
So the first thing I want to do is I'm going to add a new layer and I'm going to grab my brush tool
and switch it over to my paintbrush and then select a blue color to paint with.
Generally I just like to paint the color blue because that's kind of the color that animators use to
draw their rough sketches.
If you look at old Disney sketches that's what they used a lot.
So I just like to draw that.
Now let's go ahead and draw this.
So it's going to be a solid plank of wood
and then we can just hold down shift and click on the other side of our screen to get to the other side.
That was not very straight.
Try that again.
Perfect.
Something like that should work next.
Let's go ahead and grab our Lasso tool and we want to make sure we're on the Polygonum Lasso tool and
then we're going to go ahead and select the shape out like so
we're going to go all the way around
and connect it if we're going to add a new layer.
And then we're going to fill that in with a brown.
Come into my browns someone there should do let's fill that in.
Now we can go ahead and turn that background sketch off.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to make a copy of the Slayers will have control J.
I'm going to drag that layer underneath.
Then what we want to do is we want to nudge that layer down just a little bit.
So we can't really see it very well right now because both our layers are the same color.
But now we're going to hit control you or command you on a Mac and that will bring up your hue and saturations
panel and we just want to darken that just a little bit.
So too about there.
And you can bring up the saturation too.
As things get darker they tend to become a little bit more saturated sometimes.
OK.
And then we're going to nudge that down just a little bit further.
So about there next we're going to go ahead and go in there then we're going to select this darker color
here and we're going to paint in these edges like so so that way it becomes one solid piece.
Great.
See how that looks from far away.
Perfect next.
Let's go ahead and add in some of that wood texture.
So I'm going to come up to my top layer which is this layer right here and I'm going to add a new layer.
But we want to make this layer into a clipping mask.
So I get it right click it and come to create clipping mask.
And now we can paint that texture within this wood and it's not going to go outside of the shape.
Now let's select our color and we're going to make a little bit lighter version of that.
So about there not too much lighter and a little bit more towards the yellow than using my brush tool.
I'm going to go ahead and paint in some textured now I'm going to zoom out really far because the smaller
you paint the easier it's going to be to get really nice strokes in there.
So basically what we're going to do is we're just going to paint some lines like so maybe some loops
also something like that.
And that's just going to start giving it a very interesting look to grain.
Great.
So that's the top layer of grain.
Let's add a new layer underneath this and that will automatically be turned into a clipping layer mask
when we add underneath another clipping layer mask.
And now we're going to grab a little bit darker color so we're going to select our main color then we're
going to bring that down just a little bit and we can bring it a little more towards the red and using
a brush tool.
We're going to bring my brush size up a little bit more this time and we can go ahead and start painting
in some other woodgrain maybe something like so
and for the most part we generally want to stick with the same shapes.
Great.
Now these might be a little bit too dark.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to turn down the opacity on it to about 75 percent.
Same with my highlight one.
Next I'm going to add another layer of woodgrain just to make this look even more interesting.
So I'm going to add it underneath my clipping layer mask and then I can drag that up to the top.
That way it automatically creates it into a clipping by a mask.
And I don't actually have to right click it and turn into a clipping layer mask.
So I'm to select or highlight color right here then I'm going to come a little bit more towards the
yellow side but I'm not really going to change the brightness on it.
And I'll bring my purse I was down and then I'm going to add a little bit more texture and in here we
can get pretty wild with this.
Remember this is texture and it's also going to be covered by text and design so don't worry if it doesn't
look perfect just go wild with it and try different things.
Now this is looking a little bit too yellow for me.
So what I'm going to do is bring up my human saturation panel and I'm going to change the hue on it.
So if I drag it more towards the left it's going to become more brown into the purples.
So I want it to be a little less yellow and a little more Browns about there should be good.
Great.
So now we got this really cool texture.
Now this area right here is looking a little empty.
So going to go ahead and select this color here paint a little bit more texture in there.
It's like so perfect.
Next let's add some of this wood green texture on to the edge of our board.
So I'm going to select one color at a time starting with my bottom color I'll select that dark color
and then coming down to my back layer I'm going to add a new layer above that.
Right click it and turn it into a clipping layer mask.
So now everything I paint on this layer is going to be within the bounds of my under shape.
Next I'm going to go ahead and grab my collar and I'm going to darken it quite a bit somewhere about
there should be good maybe just a little bit darker.
And the reason why I'm Darchinyan it is because the woodgrain on the edge of a board where the shadow
is is going to be a little bit darker.
So let's go ahead and paint that in.
So I have some there there.
It's a little bit right there.
And we might have some going all the way along here so we can go ahead and paint that in by hand and
maybe a little piece there comes straight down right there and we have some right there also next.
Let's go ahead and select our next color.
So our next highlight color is going to be this winery here and we'll darken that just a little bit.
So we'll come down to about there.
And then we can start painting that.
So there's a piece right there.
There big piece right here.
This piece there.
And there's one not there.
I think there's a little bit up here.
Then let's select our last highlight color which is this more yellow one and it will darken a little
bit.
It's come down to that there and then we'll go ahead and follow that one is.
Add one there is a little bit over here some there and we might add a little bit here just to make a
little interesting one there.
And that's about it.
Perfect.
Now this background part of the board isn't looking dark enough for me.
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna merge these two layers together.
Now that's all one layer back there.
And then I'm going to bring it my human saturation panel and drag down the darkness just a little bit
more.
So maybe about there.
OK next what don't want to do is I want to merge all these layers together so they're one.
So now that's all one layer.
And now going to start hand-painted in some detail.
So if we zoom in here we want this edge to have a little bit of a highlight as it curves around.
There might be a light source coming from over here and it's hitting that tiny little curved surface
and it's going to be brighter than both the sides put together.
So I'm going to go ahead and first blend these together so I'll select this color here and bring them
down.
My brush is going to go ahead and paint at 50 percent opacity like so and then I can select that mid
color and paint that in at 100 percent opacity great and we're going to do this all over.
So I go ahead and select this color painted at 50 percent opacity and select that color.
We can do this all the way around the edges just to make it look a little bit more interesting.
Next let's go ahead and Abda highlight on all these corners.
So I'm going to go ahead and select a really like color.
So somewhere around there.
Then using my brush and putting it at 3 percent opacity I'm going to go ahead and paint that in like
so we want to give it a little bit of texture since it's wood.
So it might not just be one solid highlight line.
And let's add one down here also
and also add it to this side
and lastly we'll add it to this top area.
Zoom out and see it looks great.
Now lastly let's go ahead and add a couple of little divots cutting into the sides of our board.
So the way we're going to do that is by grabbing our lasso tool and then we're just going to go ahead
and cut out a section like so much is going to do that anywhere.
We want to have sort of a crack or a divot in our board and then maybe we'll add one more right here.
Perfect next.
Let's go ahead and zoom in there and we're going to start hand painting this divot in.
So the way we'll do that is by selecting this color right here and then going to grab just a little
bit darker version of it and using a brush tool.
We're going to hand paint a division.
Make sure your brushes at 0 percent opacity.
So we painted that side in next.
Let's go ahead and re select our color and then we're going to grab a little bit brighter version of
that and we'll paint this side of the division.
So now if we zoom out you see it looks like we took a little chunk out let's do the same up here.
Now up here it's going to be really simple.
All we have to do.
Select our shadow color and then we'll go ahead and fill that in like so
see how that looks great.
And then up here we actually don't do anything to that because we can't see that side of its surface
so we can just leave that the way it is.
Awesome.
So you just created the board and the base for your sign in the next lecture.
We're going to go ahead and create some design work to apply to our sign.
Thanks for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.